The Joe Rogan experience.
Fundamentally talk about what you can talk about to what Neurolink is.
Cause the last time you were here, I really couldn't discuss it.
And then there was a, I guess,
a press release or something that sort of outlined that, that,
that happened quite a bit after the last time you were here.
So what exactly is it, how do you do, what,
what happens if someone ultimately does get a neuro link installed?
What will take place? Well, for version one of the device,
it would be, um,
it basically implanted in your skull. So, uh,
but it would be flush with your skull. So you basically,
uh, take out a chunk of skull, replace, put the neurotic device in there. Um,
your, you put the electrode,
you'd insert the electrode threads very carefully into the brain. Um, and,
uh, and then you, you know, stitch it up and, um,
and you wouldn't even know that somebody has. Um, and then, and, and so then it,
it can interface basically anywhere in, anywhere in your brain. Um,
so it could be something that, uh, you know, helps cure say, uh, eyesight,
like give you returns your eyesight,
even if you're like lush or optic nerve type of thing. Uh, really, yeah,
absolutely hearing them say, um, I mean,
pretty much anything that w where that,
that it could in principle fix almost anything that is wrong with the brain. Um,
and it could, it could, um, restore, uh, limb functionality.
So if you've got, uh,
interface into the motor cortex and then an implant, that's say,
uh, that's like a microcontroller, uh, in near muscle groups, uh, you,
you could then create a,
sort of a neural shunt that restores somebody who is a quadriplegic
to full functionality. Like they can walk around, be normal.
Well, yeah. So maybe slightly better, slightly better over time. Yes.
You mean with future iterations? Like, you know, $6 million man,
although these days that doesn't sound like much. Yeah, yeah.
$6 Billion man. Yeah. So the, the whole would be small.
How big would the whole bean that you have to drill and then replace with this
piece? There's only one hole.
Well, um, yeah,
the device we're working on right now is about,
it's about an inch in diameter, um, and your,
your skull is pretty thick by the way. So our skulls are for sure.
It might actually literally, um, I mean, if you're a big, if you're a big guy,
your skull is actually fairly thick. Um, skulls,
like it's like seven to 14 millimeters. Um,
so a couple of inches or half inch, half inch thick skull. Uh, so,
um, yeah, so that, that's a fair bit of like our,
our we've got quite a coconut going on there. It's not,
it's not like some eggshell. Oh yeah. I believe you. Um, so the, yeah,
you basically implant the device.
Would be like a one inch square, one inch in diameter.
So an inch circle, like a circle. Yeah.
Yeah. I think like a, like a smartwatch or something like that earth. Okay.
Yeah.
Okay. So you take this one is dominant, like ice fishing, right?
You ever go ice fishing? No, but I'd like to, it's great. Yeah. It's really fun.
So you basically take an auger and you drill through
the surface of the ice and you create a small hole and you can dunk your line in
there. So this is like that you're ice fishing on the top of your skull,
and then you cork it.
Yeah. And you replaced that, um,
say one inch diameter piece of skull with the neural link device.
Um, and that has a battery and a, and a Bluetooth and a inductive charger.
Um, and then you, and then you've also got to insert the electrodes. Uh,
so the electrodes are very Kathleen sorted, uh, with our, uh, uh,
a robot that we developed, uh,
that it's know very carefully putting in the electrodes and avoiding, you know,
and any veins or arteries. Uh, so it's, you know, it doesn't create trauma.
So this one inch diameter device electrodes be
inserted and they will find their way, like tiny wires, tiny wires anywhere,
and they'll find their way to specific areas of the brain to stimulate.
No, you literally put them where it, where they're supposed to go. Oh, okay.
Yeah. You said inside the normal, these wires be, uh, I mean,
they usually go on like, you know, depending on where it is, like
yeah. Two or three millimeters.
So they just find the spots. Yeah. Wow.
Um, and then, um, yeah, and then you put the device in,
and that, that gets, uh, that, that replaces the,
the little piece of skull I was taken out. Uh, and then you,
you stitch up the hole and, um, they,
you said like a little scar and, well.
This would be replaceable or reversible. Like if someone can't take it anymore,
I'm too smart. I can't take it. Yeah. You can totally take it on.
And what is the besides re re restoring limb function and eyesight and
hearing, which are all amazing. Is there,
there any cognitive benefits that you anticipate from something like this?
Uh, yeah. I mean, you could, for sure. Um, uh,
I mean, basically it's a generalized,
um, sort of, uh,
thing for, uh, for fixing any kind of brain injury in, in principle. I,
if view or if you've got like, like severe epilepsy or something like that,
it could, it could just,
it gets just sort of stopped the episode epilepsy from occurring.
Like it could detect it in real time and then fire, uh, uh,
counter pulse and stop the epilepsy. Um, if, um,
I mean, there's, there's a whole range of brain injuries. Like people,
somebody gets a stroke, they could lose the ability to speak. Uh, th that, that,
that could also be, so she'd get like stroke damage or you lose say,
you know, muscle control over part of your face or something like that.
I think E and then when, when you, when you get older, you tend to, um,
if you've got like, you know, uh Alzheimer's or something like that,
then you lose memory and this could help you with, you know,
restoring your memory, that kind of thing.
We're storing memory and what, what is happening. It's allowing it to do that,
like the wires, these small wires stimulating these areas of the brain.
And then is it that the areas of the brain are there they're losing some sort of
electrical force, like what is, what is happening? Yeah. Yeah. So it's, it's,
it's like.
It's like the thing of just like a bunch of circuits,
and there's some like circuits that are broken and we can like,
uh, fix those circuits. It's a substitute for those circuits. Okay.
And so a specific frequency we'll go through this. Yeah.
It's just so specific in that we is the process
figuring out how much or how little has to be,
how much these areas of the brain have to be juiced up.
Yeah. I mean, there's still a lot of work to do. So when I say, you know,
we've got a shot at probably putting in an, in, in a person and, you know,
within a year, I think that that's that's well, that's exactly what I mean.
I think we've, we have a chance of putting in, put in someone and having them,
having them be healthy and, and restoring some functionality that they've lost.
The fear is that eventually you're going to have to cut the whole top of
someone's head off and put a new top with a whole bunch of wires.
If you want to get, you know, the real turbo charged version,
the P 100 D of brain stimulation.
Yeah. I mean, ultimately, if you,
if you want to go with full AI symbiosis,
you'll probably want to do something like that.
Symbiosis is a scary word when it comes to AI. It's optional.
I would hope so. Yeah. It's just, I mean,
once you enjoy the Dr. Manhattan lifestyle, once you, once you become a,
God seems very, very unlikely.
You're going to want to go back to being stupid again. I mean,
you literally could fundamentally change the way human beings interface with
each other. Yes, yes. You wouldn't need to talk.
I'm so scared of that, but so excited about it at the same time. Is that weird?
Yeah. I mean, the, I think this is one of the paths to, um,
you know, like I think like what, what are the four,
like AI is getting better and better. Um,
so now let's assume it's sort of like a, a benign AI scenario.
Uh you're in a benign scenario we're kind of left behind, you know, we're,
we're, we're not, we're not along for the ride. Um, we're just too dumb. Right.
So, so, so how do you go along for the ride? Um, and it's like,
you can't beat them, join them. So, um, and we're,
we're ready. We're already a sidewalk to some degree, right.
Cause you've got your phone, you've got your laptop. Yeah. Good drawer,
you know, electronic devices. Yeah. Um, and, um, I mean,
today, if you, your phone, if you, if you don't bring your phone long,
it's like you have missing limb syndrome. It's like,
it feels like something's really, really missing. So we're ready.
Partly, um, part, you know, partly a cyborg,
um, or an AI symbiote essentially. Um,
it's just that the data rate to the electronics is slow.
So especially output, like you're just going with your thumbs.
I mean, like what, what's your data, right.
Maybe optimistically a hundred bits per second. That's being generous.
Um, and now the computer can communicate it, like, you know, a hundred,
a hundred terabytes. Yeah. Yeah. So, so it certainly,
you know, get gigabits or a trivial at this point.
So this is like, yeah. Basically your computer could do,
uh, do things a million times faster,
or you're at a certain point it's like token,
they asked like token or a tree. Okay. Just boring.
You talk to a tree it's price. It's not very entertaining. Um, so,
um, so if you can, if you can solve the,
the data rate issue and especially output, but input too,
then you can improve the symbiosis that is already occurring
between man and machine.
So you, you could improve it in what,
when you said you won't have to talk to each other anymore.
We used to joke around about that.
I I've joked around about that a million times in this podcast,
that one day in the future,
there's going to come a time where you can read each other's minds and well,
you'll be able to interface with each other in some sort of a non-verbal
non-physical way where you will transfer data back and forth to each other
without having to actually use your mouth.
Exactly. So when you, like, what happens when you, when, like,
let's say you've got some complex idea that you're trying to convey to somebody
else, and how do you do that? Well, your brain spends a lot of effort,
compressing a complex concept into words.
And there's a, there's a lot of,
a lot of loss information loss that occurs when compressing a complex
concept into words. And then you say those, those words are then interpreted.
Then they're decompressed by the person who is listening. Um, and they,
they will at best get a very incomplete understanding of what you're trying to
convey. It's very difficult to convey a complex concept with precision, um,
because you've got compression decompression,
you may not even have heard all the words correctly.
And so communication is difficult. Yeah.
What we have here is a failure to communicate cool. And Luke. Yes.
And there's great movie. Yeah. There's an interpretation factor too.
Like you can choose to interpret certain
series of words in different ways and they're dependent upon tone
dependent upon social cues, even facial expressions, sarcasm.
There's a lot of variables. Sarcasm is difficult. Yes. Yeah.
And so when I'm,
one of the things that I've said is like that there could be potentially a
universal language that's created through computers that particularly young
kids would pick up very quickly. Like my kids do Tik TOK and all this jazz,
and I don't know what they're doing. They just know how to do it.
And they know how to do it really quickly.
Like they learn really quickly and they show me how to edit things. And yeah,
it's,
if you taught a child from first grade on how to use some new universal
language, I mean,
essentially like a Rosetta stone and something that's done
with that interprets your thoughts,
and you can convey your thoughts with no room for interpretation,
with clear, very clear where, you know what a person's saying,
and you can tell them what you're saying, and there's no need for noises,
no need for mouth noises,
no need for these sort of accepted ways that we've, uh,
sort of evolved to make sounds that we all agree,
we through our cultural dictionary and we agree,
or we can bypass all that.
I mean, you could still do it for sentimental reasons, right?
Like campfires. Yeah, exactly. You don't need campfires. You don't need a roast.
Marshmallows were kinda fun. Um, so yeah. Um,
yeah, I think you would, in principle, you would be able to communicate, uh,
very quickly and with far more precision,
uh, ideas, uh, and, and language would,
I'm not sure what would have in July,
which you could probably in a situation like this,
that you would be able to just, it'd be like, kinda like the matrix. You,
you want to speak a different language. No problem. Right.
That's why I downloaded the program.
Right. So at least for the first iterations,
first few iterations would just be able to use, like, I know that Google has,
uh, their, uh,
some of their pixel buds have the ability to interpret languages in real time.
Sure. Yeah. You can hear it. And they'll,
it'll play things back to you in whatever language you choose.
So it'd be something along those lines. Yeah.
For the first few iterations.
Well, the first few iterations are what I'm talking about.
It's like in the limit over time, you know, w with a lot of development, um,
the first few iterations, really in the first few versions,
all we're gonna be trying to do is solve it, brain injuries. Um, so,
so it's like, don't, don't,
don't worry that it's not going to sneak up on you because this this'll take a
while. How many years before you don't have to talk,
if the, if the, if the development
continues to accelerate, then
maybe like five years, five to 10 years quick.
That's really quick. That's the best case scenario, no talking anymore in.
Five years, best case scenario, but, um, tens 10 years, more like it,
I've.
Always speculated that aliens could potentially be us in the future.
Because if you look at like the size of their heads and the fact that they have
very little muscle in there, then they don't use their mouth anymore.
They was tiny little, I mean, the archetypal,
an alien that you see in like close encounters of the third kind,
they they're like if you went from like, uh, Australia,
Pythagoras or ancient hominid to us, what's the difference, less hair,
less muscle, bigger head.
And then just keep going thousand million, whatever year or five years,
whatever, whatever happens when neural link goes on online.
And then we slowly start to adapt to this new way
of being where we don't use our muscles anymore. We have this gigantic head.
We can talk without words.
You could also save state,
save state, save state, like save your brain state, like,
like a saved game in a video game. Whoa.
Like, like if you want to swap from windows 95. Well, yeah.
Hopefully a little bit of fun in that, but yeah.
We are windows 95 right now. Mommy.
Fisher perspective, probably. Um, but yeah, I mean, you, you could, uh,
save state, um, and restore that state into a biological being,
if you, if you wanted to in the future in principle, it's like nothing,
like from a physics standpoint that prevents us at you,
you'd be a little different,
but then you're also a little different when you wake up in the morning from
yesterday and you were a little different. In fact,
if you say like you five years ago versus you today is quite a big difference.
Um, so you'll be substantially you, I mean, you'd be,
you'd suddenly think you're you, but.
The idea of saving yourself and then transforming
that into some sort of a biological state,
like you could hang out with 30 year old, you.
I mean, the possibilities are endless. Um,
it's so weird. I mean, just think like how your phone can,
you can record videos on your phone. Like,
there's no way you could remember a video as accurately as your phone or a
camera, you know, could, so, uh, now if you, if you've got like,
you know, some, some version 10, your link, whatever,
and far in the future, you,
you could re you could re you could recall everything, but just like,
it's a movie clip. It concluding all the entire sensory experience, emotions,
everything, everything, everything,
and play it back and edit it, edit it.
Yeah. So you can change your past.
You change. What do you think was your past? Yeah. Well,
so if you had like this whole thing right now could be a replayed memory.
It could be.
Yeah. It may be what's the odds of this being a replayed memory.
If you had to guess it's more than 50%.
There's no way to assign a probability with accuracy here. Right. But roughly.
If you had just had a, just gut instinct.
Well, I don't have a neuro link in my brain. So I'd say right now, 0%.
But at the point at which you do have in your link, then it rises above 0%.
The idea that we're experiencing some sort of a preserved memory is,
uh, even though it's still the same, it's not comforting,
right? For some reason, when, when people talk about simulation theory,
they talk about the potential for this currently being a simulation. It,
even though your life might be wonderful, you might be in love.
You might love your career. You might have great friends,
but it's not comforting to know that this experience somehow or another doesn't
exist in a material form that you can knock on. It feels real. It feels real,
but, but if it's,
but the idea that it's not as safe for some strange reason,
disconcerting, well.
Yeah, I'm sure it should be disconcerting that cause then if this is not real,
what is, um, but, but the, you know, there's that old sort of,
um, thought experiment of like, how do you know you're not a brain and event?
You know? I mean, now he has the thing, you are a brain in event,
then that faddish of skull. Yes. And everything you see, feel,
hear everything, all your senses are, are electrical signals, everything,
everything
is an electrical signal to a,
to a rain and Yvette where the package was called and.
All your hormones, all your neuro-transmitters, all these things are drugs.
Adrenaline's a drug. Dopamine is a drug, you're a drug factory.
You're constantly changing your state with love and oxytocin and beauty
sure. Changes your state. Great music changes your state. Absolutely.
And yet here's another sort of interesting idea, which is, um,
cause you say like what, where did consciousness arise? Well,
assuming you believe the belief in physics,
which appears to be true. Um, then you know, we,
the universe started off as basically quarks and leptons and quickly became
hydrogen and helium, lithium,
like basically elements of the periodic table. Uh,
but like mostly hydrogen basically. Um, and then,
and then over a long period of time, uh, you know,
13.8 billion years later, that hydrogen became Santi ant,
w w where along the way did conduit,
where does consciousness?
What's the line of consciousness and not consciousness between hydrogen and
here. Right?
When do we call it? When do we call it consciousness?
I was watching a video today that we played on a podcast earlier of a monkey
riding a motorcycle down the street,
jumps off the motorcycle and tries to steal.
A baby. Yeah. So that one Pharaoh.
What is that monkey conscious? It seems like it is, it seems like it had a plan.
It was riding a motorcycle.
And the jumped off the motorcycle to try to steal a baby. Seems pretty. Yeah.
The one that just dragged baby down the street pretty far. Yeah. Yeah.
It seems pretty conscious, right?
There's definitely some degree of consciousness there.
Yeah. It's not like it's not a worm. It seems to be on another level.
Yeah. And it's going to keep going.
And that's the real concern.
When, when people think about the potential future versions of human beings,
especially when you consider a symbiotic relationship to artificial
intelligence,
it will be unrecognizable that one day will be so far removed from what this is.
We'll look back on this, the way we look back now on, you know,
simple, simple organisms that we evolved from.
And then it won't be that far in the future that we do have this,
this view back.
Well, I hope consciousness propagates into the future and it gets more,
more sophisticated and complex. And,
and that it understands the questions to ask about the universe.
Do you think that's the case as he, as a human being, as yourself,
you're clearly trying to make conscious decisions to be a better
version of you, right?
This is the idea of like getting rid of your possessions and realizing that
you're trying to, like, I don't like this. I will try to improve this.
I would try to do a better version of the way I interface with reality that this
is always the way things are. If you're, if you're moving in, uh,
some sort of a direction where you're trying to improve things,
you're always going to move into this new place where you look back in the old
place and go, I was doing it wrong back then.
So this is an accelerated version of that.
It's a super accelerated version of that.
I mean, you don't always improve,
but you can aspire to improve or you can aspire to be less wrong. Yeah.
This is like, I think a good, the tools of physics are very powerful.
Like just assume you're wrong. And you're asking your goals to be less wrong.
I don't think you're going to succeed everyday in being less wrong,
but you know, if you're going to succeed in being less wrong,
most of the time you're doing great.
It's a great way of putting it aspire to be less wrong. But then when you know,
people look back and nostalgia about simpler times, there's that too.
It's very romantic and exciting to look back on campfires.
But you can still have a campfire. Yes. Yeah.
We appreciate it when you're a super nerd,
when you connect it to the grid and you have some,
a skullcap in place of the top of your head,
it's interfacing with the inter international language at the rest of the
universe now enjoys communication with people.
Yeah, sure. I, I think so. Yeah. I like that part.
[Inaudible].